MEVIN overview:

mevin is a project management and comprehenson tool that provide developers a  complete build lifecycle framework

developement team can automate the projects, build infrastructure in almost no time as mevin uses a standard directory layout and a default built lifecycle

In case of mutiple developement teams environment mevin can setup the way to work as per standards in a very short time

As most of the projects setups are simple and reusable mevin make the life of the developer easy while creating reports, checks, builts, testing the automata setups

Mevun provides the developers ways to mange the following.
1. Builts
2. Documentation
3. Reporting
4. Dependencies
5. Releases
6. Distribution
7. Mailing list

To summarize Mevin simplifies and standardize the project build.It handles compilation, Distribution, Documentation, team collaboration and other relavent tasks seamlessly.

Meven increases the reusability and takes care of most of the build related tasks

OBJECTIVES:

The primary goal of the mevin is to provide developer with the following:
1. A comprehensive model for projects, which is reusable, maintainable and easy to comprehend
2. Plugins or tools that interact with this declarative model

Mevin project structure and contents are declare in a executable file, pom file which is rerfered to project object model which is fundamental unit of the entire mevin system

Features:

1. Simple project setup that follows best practices
2. consistent usage across all the projects
3. Dependency management including automatic updating
4. A large and growing libraries of repositorries
5. extensible, with the ability to easily write plugins in java or scripting languages
6. Instant access to new features with little or no extra configurations
7. model based builds
8. Maven is able to buit any number of projects into predefined output types such as .jar files, meta data
9. Coherent site of project information
10. using same metadata as per the bulit purpose meven is able to generate a website and a pdf including a complete documentation 
11. release management and distribution publication
	- without additional configuration mevin will integrate with a source control system and manages the relese of the project
12. Backward compatibility
	- you can easily port a multiple modules of a project into meven-v3 from older versions of mevin
13. automatic parent versionig
	- no need to specify the parent in the moduke for maintainance
14. Parallel builts
	- it analyses the project dependencies and enables you to build schedule modules in parallel. Using this you can achieve the performance improvements 	  of 20-50%
15. Better error and integrity reporting
	- meven improve error reporting, and it provides you with a link to the meven wikipage where you will get the full description of the error